README.md, before:

# Learn Computer Science and Low-Level Programming

## How computers work

- [x] 💲[Code: The Hidden Language of Computer Hardware and Software](https://www.informit.com/store/code-the-hidden-language-of-computer-hardware-and-software-9780137909100)
- [ ] [NandGame](https://nandgame.com) and solutions: [1](https://www.reddit.com/r/nandgame_u/wiki/index/level-solutions/), [2](https://github.com/timlg07/NandGame-Solutions/blob/master/Solutions.md), [3](https://github.com/simsieg/nandgame-solutions)
- [x] From Nand to Tetris: [Part 1](https://www.coursera.org/learn/build-a-computer), [Part 2](https://www.coursera.org/learn/nand2tetris2)
- [ ] Build a computer in [CircuitVerse](https://circuitverse.org/)

## C

- [ ] 💲[C Programming: A Modern Approach](http://knking.com/books/c2/index.html)
- [ ] [CS50 problem sets (1-5)](https://cs50.harvard.edu/x/2024/psets/) and solutions: [1](https://github.com/BogdanOtava/CS50x), [2](https://github.com/kylekce/CS50x-2023), [3](https://github.com/VerisimilitudeX/CS50), [4](https://github.com/gionet/CS50-2023), [5](https://github.com/yasingunay/CS50x), [6](https://github.com/csfive/CS50x), [7](https://github.com/evieran/CS50-Solutions), [8](https://github.com/Aadv1k/cs50/tree/master/Introduction_To_Computer_Science), [9](https://github.com/uxdruh/cs50x-2024), [10](https://github.com/vncsmnl/CS50X)
- [ ] [Tutorial on pointers and arrays in C](https://github.com/jflaherty/ptrtut13)
- [ ] [Exercism - C](https://exercism.org/tracks/c)

## C game programming

- [ ] [Handmade Hero videos](https://handmadehero.org/) plus [Handmade Penguin](https://davidgow.net/handmadepenguin/) to follow along in Linux
- [ ] [Handmade Quake videos](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fo/l6nqvbl5v0snbd7vo2c7x/AHnBbVV6SUDYIJPSH_jGfaQ?rlkey=osvqri75z18xcds8tsi31enfg&e=1&dl=0) and [source code](https://github.com/Kobzol/handmade-quake)
- [ ] [Kohi Game Engine videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLv8Ddw9K0JPg1BEO-RS-0MYs423cvLVtj)
- [ ] Make a game, taking inspiration from [high_impact](https://phoboslab.org/log/2024/08/high_impact), [raylib](https://www.raylib.com/), [Box2D 3.x](https://github.com/erincatto/box2c) (or see [box2d-raylib](https://github.com/erincatto/box2d-raylib))

## Zig (a better C)

- [ ] [Learning Zig](https://www.openmymind.net/learning_zig/)
- [ ] [zig.guide](https://zig.guide/)
- [ ] [Learn Zig in Y minutes](https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/zig/)
- [ ] [A half-hour to learn Zig](https://gist.github.com/ityonemo/769532c2017ed9143f3571e5ac104e50)
- [ ] [Zig - Learn (official docs)](https://ziglang.org/learn/)
- [ ] [ziglings (exercises)](https://codeberg.org/ziglings/exercises/)
- [ ] [Zig Cookbook](https://github.com/zigcc/zig-cookbook)
- [ ] [Exercism - Zig](https://exercism.org/tracks/zig)
- [ ] [More learning resources in an Awesome Zig list](https://github.com/C-BJ/awesome-zig#learning)

## Data Structures and Algorithms

- [x] 💲[Data Structures and Algorithms in Java](https://www.amazon.com/Data-Structures-Algorithms-Java-2nd/dp/0672324539)
- [ ] 💲[The Algorithm Design Manual](https://www.algorist.com/) plus [lecture videos](https://www3.cs.stonybrook.edu/~skiena/373/videos/)
- [ ] 💲[Algorithm Design](https://www.cs.princeton.edu/~wayne/kleinberg-tardos/)
- [ ] 💲[Algorithms](https://algs4.cs.princeton.edu/home/)
- [ ] 💲[Introduction to Algorithms](http://mitpress.mit.edu/9780262046305/introduction-to-algorithms/)
- [ ] Practice on LeetCode using a familiar high-level language (for me Ruby).
  - Ruby solutions: [1](https://github.com/ACEMerlin/leetcode-ruby), [2](https://github.com/remy727/leetcode), [3](https://github.com/ganeshskudva/Leetcode-Ruby), [4](https://github.com/acearth/LeetCodePractice), [5](https://github.com/catluri/Leetcode-Ruby)
  - [Algorithms Ruby gem](https://github.com/kanwei/algorithms) that is [included in the LeetCode environment](https://support.leetcode.com/hc/en-us/articles/360011833974-What-are-the-environments-for-the-programming-languages).
- [ ] Practice on LeetCode using a low-level language such as C.

## Operating systems, etc.
- [x] 💲[Operating Systems: Three Easy Pieces](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/OSTEP/)
- [ ] [Dive into Systems](https://diveintosystems.org/singlepage)
- [ ] 💲[Computer Systems: A Programmer's Perspective](https://csapp.cs.cmu.edu/)

## Compilers

- [ ] [Crafting Interpreters](https://craftinginterpreters.com/)

## Ruby C extensions

- [ ] [A Rubyist's Walk Along the C-side](https://blog.peterzhu.ca/ruby-c-ext/)

Commit message:

Replace Zig resources with a simple list of C-replacement languages

README.md, after:

# Learn Computer Science and Low-Level Programming

## How computers work

- [x] 💲[Code: The Hidden Language of Computer Hardware and Software](https://www.informit.com/store/code-the-hidden-language-of-computer-hardware-and-software-9780137909100)
- [ ] [NandGame](https://nandgame.com) and solutions: [1](https://www.reddit.com/r/nandgame_u/wiki/index/level-solutions/), [2](https://github.com/timlg07/NandGame-Solutions/blob/master/Solutions.md), [3](https://github.com/simsieg/nandgame-solutions)
- [x] From Nand to Tetris: [Part 1](https://www.coursera.org/learn/build-a-computer), [Part 2](https://www.coursera.org/learn/nand2tetris2)
- [ ] Build a computer in [CircuitVerse](https://circuitverse.org/)

## C

- [ ] 💲[C Programming: A Modern Approach](http://knking.com/books/c2/index.html)
- [ ] [CS50 problem sets (1-5)](https://cs50.harvard.edu/x/2024/psets/) and solutions: [1](https://github.com/BogdanOtava/CS50x), [2](https://github.com/kylekce/CS50x-2023), [3](https://github.com/VerisimilitudeX/CS50), [4](https://github.com/gionet/CS50-2023), [5](https://github.com/yasingunay/CS50x), [6](https://github.com/csfive/CS50x), [7](https://github.com/evieran/CS50-Solutions), [8](https://github.com/Aadv1k/cs50/tree/master/Introduction_To_Computer_Science), [9](https://github.com/uxdruh/cs50x-2024), [10](https://github.com/vncsmnl/CS50X)
- [ ] [Tutorial on pointers and arrays in C](https://github.com/jflaherty/ptrtut13)
- [ ] [Exercism - C](https://exercism.org/tracks/c)
- [ ] Look into "better C" languages: [Zig](https://ziglang.org/), [Odin](https://odin-lang.org/), [Beef](https://www.beeflang.org/), [V](https://vlang.io/), [Jai](https://github.com/Jai-Community/Jai-Community-Library/wiki), [C3](https://c3-lang.org/), and [others](https://github.com/robertmuth/awesome-low-level-programming-languages) (minus the C++ replacements like Rust, which are too complex for my purposes)

## C game programming

- [ ] [Handmade Hero videos](https://handmadehero.org/) plus [Handmade Penguin](https://davidgow.net/handmadepenguin/) to follow along in Linux
- [ ] [Handmade Quake videos](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fo/l6nqvbl5v0snbd7vo2c7x/AHnBbVV6SUDYIJPSH_jGfaQ?rlkey=osvqri75z18xcds8tsi31enfg&e=1&dl=0) and [source code](https://github.com/Kobzol/handmade-quake)
- [ ] [Kohi Game Engine videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLv8Ddw9K0JPg1BEO-RS-0MYs423cvLVtj)
- [ ] Make a game, taking inspiration from [high_impact](https://phoboslab.org/log/2024/08/high_impact), [raylib](https://www.raylib.com/), [Box2D 3.x](https://github.com/erincatto/box2c) (or see [box2d-raylib](https://github.com/erincatto/box2d-raylib))

## Data Structures and Algorithms

- [x] 💲[Data Structures and Algorithms in Java](https://www.amazon.com/Data-Structures-Algorithms-Java-2nd/dp/0672324539)
- [ ] 💲[The Algorithm Design Manual](https://www.algorist.com/) plus [lecture videos](https://www3.cs.stonybrook.edu/~skiena/373/videos/)
- [ ] 💲[Algorithm Design](https://www.cs.princeton.edu/~wayne/kleinberg-tardos/)
- [ ] 💲[Algorithms](https://algs4.cs.princeton.edu/home/)
- [ ] 💲[Introduction to Algorithms](http://mitpress.mit.edu/9780262046305/introduction-to-algorithms/)
- [ ] Practice on LeetCode using a familiar high-level language (for me Ruby).
  - Ruby solutions: [1](https://github.com/ACEMerlin/leetcode-ruby), [2](https://github.com/remy727/leetcode), [3](https://github.com/ganeshskudva/Leetcode-Ruby), [4](https://github.com/acearth/LeetCodePractice), [5](https://github.com/catluri/Leetcode-Ruby)
  - [Algorithms Ruby gem](https://github.com/kanwei/algorithms) that is [included in the LeetCode environment](https://support.leetcode.com/hc/en-us/articles/360011833974-What-are-the-environments-for-the-programming-languages).
- [ ] Practice on LeetCode using a low-level language such as C.

## Operating systems, etc.
- [x] 💲[Operating Systems: Three Easy Pieces](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/OSTEP/)
- [ ] [Dive into Systems](https://diveintosystems.org/singlepage)
- [ ] 💲[Computer Systems: A Programmer's Perspective](https://csapp.cs.cmu.edu/)

## Compilers

- [ ] [Crafting Interpreters](https://craftinginterpreters.com/)

## Ruby C extensions

- [ ] [A Rubyist's Walk Along the C-side](https://blog.peterzhu.ca/ruby-c-ext/)
